README.md, before:

# EventsBackbone

In Vue, custom events do not propagate through the components branch. A simple solution to this problem
is Dependency Injection with Provide/Inject to make component functions and properties available to
its children.

This plugin is essentially a **Pub/Sub queue** at its main core, but it is made to **simulate the DOM events propagation** 
through vue components, including "**stopPropagation**" and "**once**" options for emitted events.
This plugin does not need dependencies at all and it is developed for Vue3.
To keep things separated, the EventsBackbone plugin **DOES NOT USE DOM events or vue emitters**, instead events are only keys 
registered on the queue that are being used to register handlers to call.

The event emitted can have data passed as payload, that will be incapsulated in a "**EventsBackboneSpineEvent**"
object containing: 
1) the instance of the component that emitted the event 
2) the instance of the component currently handling the event
3) the event name
4) the data passed through (optional)
5) if event has been emitted globally as opposed to the default backbone behaviour that 
follows the components tree branch from the emitter child to the root (optional, default false).

This object will then be passed as argument to all handlers registered for the specified event.

Registered handlers can have **stopPropagation** and **once** as modifiers, both false by default. These 
options can be both a boolean or a function returning a boolean. In this second case, the BackboneEvent object 
will be passed as argument of the function.

On the other hand, the emitter component can emit an event in deafult mode (following the components tree branch)
or to emit the event globally.

The plugin is made to be easily used. It will export:

- **the plugin installer to install with app.use()**
- **the plugin directive to register on the app with app.directive()**, that will be used to register event listeners on those components that need to
- **useBackbone** function that will return the internal EventsBackbone instance. This is to a more precise control of the mechanism
- **createEventsBackboneEmitter**, a Symbol that it's meant to be used for injecting the **EventsBackboneEmit** function. This
must be called in a component lifecycle hook as it uses getCurrentInstance() internally.

To install the plugin and the directive you have to import these two references:

```
import installEventsBackbone, { EventsBackBoneDirective } from 'vue-events-backbone';
```

then:

```
app.use(installEventsBackbone);
app.directive("nameOfYourChoice", EventsBackBoneDirective);
```

Then on the components for which you want to register the handler:
```
<YourComponent v-nameOfYourChoice="{'eventName1': { handler: theHandlerFn, options?: EventsBackboneHandlerOption }, 'eventName2': ...}">
```

The directive handles the on/off of registered event listeners, according to the component lifecycle.
It is advised to place the directive on the root tag of the component, although it should work anyway

**IMPORTANT NOTE: theHandlerFn must take a parameter of EventsBackboneSpineEvent type (importable from this package)**

On components from which you want to emit events through the EventsBackbone, you'll have to:
1) import the injection key for the createEmitter function: 
```
import { createEventsBackboneEmitter } from 'vue-events-backbone';
const yourCustomVariable: EventsBackboneEmitterGenerator | undefined = inject(createEventsBackboneEmitter);
const yourEmitterRef: Ref<EventsBackboneEmitter | undefined> = ref();
```
2) inside one of component lifecycle hooks:
```
onMounted(() => {
  yourEmitterRef.value = yourCustomVariable ? yourCustomVariable("yourEventName") : undefined;
})
```

yourEmitterRef hasn't necessarily to be a ref, it's sufficient to store the generated emitter function in a simple variable.
The createEmitter function accept the event name and returns the emitter function.
The emitter function, on its own accepts two arguments: the event data you want to pass and if the event has to be global (default false).
The emitter fucntion, when called, will return a Promise<void> when the backbone will finish to call all the handlers.
**The developer will have to create an emitter function for all events he'll want to emit through the EventsBackbone.**

### GENERAL NOTES:

- **stopPropagation** option will NOT work if the event is emitted with global: true;
- **once** option will unregister ONLY the specific handler for which the option is set, even if a component have registered
more different handlers for the same event.

Commit message:

emitterFunction now returns a promise that states when event propagation has completed.

README.md, after:

# EventsBackbone

In Vue, custom events do not propagate through the components branch. A simple solution to this problem
is Dependency Injection with Provide/Inject to make component functions and properties available to
its children.

This plugin is essentially an **Event Bus** at its main core, but it is made to **simulate the DOM events propagation** 
through vue components, including "**stopPropagation**" and "**once**" options for emitted events.
This plugin does not need dependencies at all and it is developed for Vue3.
To keep things separated, the EventsBackbone plugin **DOES NOT USE DOM events or vue emitters**, instead events are only keys 
registered on the queue that are being used to register handlers to call.

The event emitted can have data passed as payload, that will be incapsulated in a "**EventsBackboneSpineEvent**"
object containing: 
1) the instance of the component that emitted the event 
2) the instance of the component currently handling the event
3) the event name
4) the data passed through (optional)
5) if event has been emitted globally as opposed to the default backbone behaviour that 
follows the components tree branch from the emitter child to the root (optional, default false).

This object will then be passed as argument to all handlers registered for the specified event.

Registered handlers can have **stopPropagation** and **once** as modifiers, both false by default. These 
options can be both a boolean or a function returning a boolean. In this second case, the BackboneEvent object 
will be passed as argument of the function.

On the other hand, the emitter component can emit an event in deafult mode (following the components tree branch)
or to emit the event globally.

The plugin is made to be easily used. It will export:

- **the plugin installer to install with app.use()**
- **the plugin directive to register on the app with app.directive()**, that will be used to register event listeners on those components that need to
- **useBackbone** function that will return the internal EventsBackbone instance. This is to a more precise control of the mechanism
- **createEventsBackboneEmitter**, a Symbol that it's meant to be used for injecting the **EventsBackboneEmit** function. This
must be called in a component lifecycle hook as it uses getCurrentInstance() internally.

To install the plugin and the directive you have to import these two references:

```
import installEventsBackbone, { EventsBackBoneDirective } from 'vue-events-backbone';
```

then:

```
app.use(installEventsBackbone);
app.directive("nameOfYourChoice", EventsBackBoneDirective);
```

Then on the components for which you want to register the handler:
```
<YourComponent v-nameOfYourChoice="{'eventName1': { handler: theHandlerFn, options?: EventsBackboneHandlerOption }, 'eventName2': ...}">
```

The directive handles the on/off of registered event listeners, according to the component lifecycle.
It is advised to place the directive on the root tag of the component, although it should work anyway

**IMPORTANT NOTE: theHandlerFn must take a parameter of EventsBackboneSpineEvent type (importable from this package)**

On components from which you want to emit events through the EventsBackbone, you'll have to:
1) import the injection key for the createEmitter function: 
```
import { createEventsBackboneEmitter } from 'vue-events-backbone';
const yourCustomVariable: EventsBackboneEmitterGenerator | undefined = inject(createEventsBackboneEmitter);
const yourEmitterRef: Ref<EventsBackboneEmitter | undefined> = ref();
```
NOTE: if yourCustomVariable is undefined, there is some problem with your plugin installation

2) inside one of component lifecycle hooks:
```
onMounted(() => {
  yourEmitterRef.value = yourCustomVariable ? yourCustomVariable("yourEventName") : undefined;
})
```

yourEmitterRef hasn't necessarily to be a ref, it's sufficient to store the generated emitter function in a simple variable.
The createEmitter function accept the event name and returns the emitter function.
The emitter function, on its own accepts two arguments: the event data you want to pass and if the event has to be global (default false).
The emitter fucntion, when called, will return a Promise<void> when the backbone will finish to call all the handlers.
**The developer will have to create an emitter function for all events he'll want to emit through the EventsBackbone.**

### GENERAL NOTES:

- **stopPropagation** option will NOT work if the event is emitted with global: true;
- **once** option will unregister ONLY the specific handler for which the option is set, even if a component have registered
more different handlers for the same event.
